Daybreak Intro Events

Format is as following:

Fires for characters in region
Event Title
Text Body
Dismissal Option text


Imperial Core (Bithynia and Thrace)

Title: Unconquered Sun, Unconquered City

All roads lead to Rome, it was once said, as that ancient city brought the world low, cutting down barbarians like sheaves of wheat and civilised the world beyond all horizons. The region around the Straits of Bosporus was thankfully spared the worst of this warfare, the local leaders being allies and supporters of Rome, eventually integrated entirely into their Empire. Yet none could then know the unfathomable glory this peaceful backwater of the Empire would one day host. As the Empire emerged from the Century of Crisis, the Emperor Constantine would set his sights on the town of Byzantium as the perfect location for his Golden City, a New Rome to outshine the crumbling, overpopulated City of Old, increasingly infested with fleas, rats and Christian converts as the monuments of ancient glories fell apart.\n\n
New Rome would rise, in enough marble and gold and porphyry to baffle the senses of any Roman or drive a provincial peasant mad at the mere concept of such wealth. Nowadays known most commonly as Constantinopolis or Megalopolis, the City of Constantine or the Greatest City, the greatest walls the world have ever seen shields an uncounted population larger than entire nations. Pilgrims seeking the light of the Invincible Sun radiating off the golden roofs or to sacrifice to the countless Old Gods prostrate themselves in the thousands in temples the size of city blocs, the exotic smells and sounds of the overflowing markets surrounding them drowned out by the raucuous roar of the Hippodrome. Far beyond the great walls, in their villas dotting vast estates where slaves and peasants toil from dawn to dusk to feed the City of Cities, the imperial elites tightly cling their golden goblets, enviously eyeing the distant lights of the City and imagining what controlling it could mean for their legacy, their dynasty, their faith. Like sharks or wolves they stare through enveloping darkness of the setting sun, for they all know the weak point at the very centre of the golden sheen.\n\n
Behind walls, villas, townhouses, temples, markets, monuments and yet more walls, ensconced in a palace the size of a small city, behind thousands of bureaucrats, slaves, servants, scholars, clerics and courtiers, beyond marble walls shrouded by heavy imperial purple silken veils, illuminated by dancing lights in gilded fittings... a bejewelled cup worth more than what many people earn in a lifetime slip from a trembling hand covered in equally expensive rings. The wine spills across the red ink of depressing economic reports and disturbingly stained reports from the military frontiers, and for a moment the stone faces of the Council move ever so slightly. Not because of the destruction of the reports; their respective spymasters had long since procured them copies from each other's departments, rather, the shocking thing was the trembling of the hand and what it betrayed of its owner's conclusions about the state of the greatest Empire the known world had ever seen. For a moment the room held its collective breath as all present thought the same phrase that would be repeated by the elites by the end of the night, by the city beggars by tomorrow, muttered as a curse by frontier soldiers by the end of the month, and read with smiles from spy reports in foreign courts before the year was out. A phrase that could topple all political, economic and military certainties.

Option:"The Emperor is afraid."


Syria

Title: The Land of War

The Sun used to glitter on the silver shields of these lands. Once home to little but scattered Phoenician traders clinging to the coasts and nomads encamping between ancient ruins, the Great Conqueror saw the brilliant potential of these lands, known to the Greeks and soon even to the locals as Syria, named after the neighbouring region of ancient Assyria. Following his glorious victory at the Issos river, he opened the area up for Greek colonization and cut deals with the Phoenician coastal cities to become their protector, stubborn Tyre being the only fools refusing to abandon the collapsing Persian Empire. The Great punished this insolence mightily, constructing an entire new peninsula to enable his army to crush the island city. This victory was supposed to bring blessed peace to Syria, yet instead the Greeks who settled here would forever live in what the Arabs of the southeast call the Land of War.\n\n
Following the Conqueror's death, a foul cyclops named Antigonos tried to make Syria the core of a new empire based on land stolen from the righteous heirs of Alexander. Luckily Alexander's bodyguard, friend and general Seleucus the Victorious rode forth from Babylon and saved Syria, laying the groundwork for the great city of Antioch that would one day become the capital of his heirs. Understanding it is what Alexander would have wanted, Seleucus and his successors set out to reunite the Conqueror's scattered empire and began marrying into the Argead dynasty, ensuring righteous blood would sit the throne. While eventually forced into vassalage and annexation to Rome as Persians and barbarians conspired against the Seleucids from the east, they remained great Syrian magnates, and continue to shape the future until today. Even now, centuries later, Seleucid family members continue to regularly hold the governorship in Antioch, defending the province from everything from Persian armies to Muslim raiders. These days though, their authority extends little beyond Antioch's great walls, as they find themselves challenged by an old foe.\n\n
Eight centuries ago a distant relative of the Seleucids, Zenobia, married the great Palmyran general Odoaenathus. Under his rule, Palmyra, center of Syria's inland trade routes, became the finest city east of Rome. When his ambitious wife followed him as ruler,she quickly conquered most of the Eastern Empire before being stopped by the great Aurelian, who captured the great city and took Zenobia and her family captive. This would not hold her down however, and after Aurelian died she soon maneuvered her family back to Syria, leveraging stories of the alleged abuse local Christians were causing and the need for the Romans to ally with local pagan lords. Zenobia's line would remain among Palmyra's leading families ever since, often ruling it, seemingly faultlessly loyal as they leverage and protect nearby trade routes from Arab raiders and Persian campaigns. Still, with the Empire's authority declining, they have abandoned newfangled faiths, like the warrior cult of Alexander promoted by the Seleucids, or the cult of Sol Invictus, in favour of ancient ones like the worship of Bel-Shamen. Their new dynast, now truly ensconced in Zenobia's ancient capital, promises that Palmyra will once again rise to regain her empire. Can the Seleucid governor contain their rogue relatives, or will Syria again have new ruler from Palmyra? And unnoticed among the schemes of the high nobility, the Christians stir against imperial impression, ever praying, plotting and searching for some way to take down these ancient giants in the name of Christ, once and for all....

Option: "Have we tried talking it out?"


Crete

Title: The Empty Cup

The grape is a wonderful thing. Birthed from the ruin-scattered ground, ripened in the warm Cretan sun, picked by farmer admiring a faded bull fresco of the Minoans long gone... Kreta is an ancient land indeed, though these days it is mostly known for its wine and plentiful pirate coves preying on merchant ships exposed by declining Imperial naval presence. Most of all, however, it is a gilded prison for its most famous family.\n\n
Long, long ago, the Mediterranean trembled in fear of them, Alexandros' mightiest successors. The Conqueror left Antigonos the One-Eyed, an old veteran and friend of his father and uncles, in charge of protecting his enourmously long supply lines as he plunged ever deeper into the Persian Empire, and following his tragic death, Antigonos would strike out from his base in Phrygia to crush various pretenders and traitors to the Conquerors' legacy. His son, Demetrios the Besieger, would invent and use incredible new machines to bring down his father's enemies, eventually coming to be revered as a manifestation of the god Dionysos in Athens following his liberation of the city from the Antipatrid usurpers and work to restore their food supply.Yet all good parties must end, and eventually the jealous warlords of the Diadochi conspired to tear Antigonos'realm apart. Demetrios however survived, and launched his last forces into Macedon proper in a desparate gambit. The Antipater clan had conspired with local barons to make the legitimate heir of Alexandros their puppet, yet had then fallen to civil war. Demetrius beat down the usurpers, saved the young king, and eventually married his son to the kin's daughter so the legitimate line would rule Macedonia henceforth.\n\n
All seemed good until that fool Pyrrhos brought the Romans to Greece, who deposed the Antigonids and exiled the family to Thrace, where they deepened their relation with the cult of Dionysos. Following a failed revolt they would have to relocate again, this time to Athens, where they remained until approached a century later by the Roman general and fellow Dionysos devotee Marcus Antonius for help outfitting a navy to resist Caesar's heir, Augustus. The fool never realized the family still retained their keen strategic sense, and at a key moment during the battle of Actium, the Antigonid ships defected to Augustus' side. As a reward, they were granted extensive vineyards and estates, but Augustus was no fool and placed them all in faraway Crete, where they could do little harm.\n\n
Now, after centuries upon centuries of slow consolidation of power masked as loyal service to Rome, the Antigonids have gained full control of their island prison, and as the Empire weakens around them, perhaps they have one last chance at regaining their true inheritance as Alexandros' heirs. It may seem an impossible challenge, yet Antigonos' successors have never shied away from the impossible. At countless parties and feasts along Crete, the dynasty and their supporters still let out their ancient cry...

Option: "Remember the Besieger!"


Cyprus

Title: A Legacy Deferred

"The Conqueror's Conquered" is the cruel nickname often given to the mainline Argead dynasty, blood of Alexandros, squatting here in their island home. Following Alexandros' passing, his young heir by his wife Roxana, Alexandros Aegos, was turned into a puppet for various Diadochi warlords, his heirs made to cede the throne to the Antigonid dynasty and marry into said dynasty. Luckily, unlike some of their more hostile predecessors, the Antigonids never dared outright kill any members of the dynasty, and they lived in comfort in Pella until the Roman invasion. Using the chaos of the Roman takeover, the Argeads were able to flee here to Cyprus, making their homes on this rocky outpost of Greece. The island switched control between the Seleucid and Ptolemaic Empires multiple times, the dynasty forced to debase themselves by bowing and scraping to the descendants of those who were once mere servants of the Conqueror, offering their daughters to them in marriage so as to legitimize their usurpation of Alexandros' empire.\n\n
Even when the Romans landed on Cyprus they did more of the same, but this time the intermarriages were at least useful for the dynasty. Every time a Julio-Argead dynast ascended to the purple, he would lavish more honours on the mainline Argead dynasty, to show deference to Alexandros. An Argead would become head of the island's tin production, another one the head of the local vassal kings, then another in charge of administrative integration into the Roman provincial system, and yet another would become governor. Following the Arab invasions in the 7th century, where an Argead governor held the island against successive waves of Muslim raiders, the position of Cypriot governor has been essentially hereditary to the Argead dynasty.\n\n
As the new century dawns,the dynasty still maintains faithful worship of their hallowed ancestor Alexandros-Ammon, but the military drills and exercises associated with the faith are half-hearted and largely naval in nature, unlike more active branches of the dynasty. The backs of the truest inheritors of Alexandros' legacy are truly broken from thirteen centuries of oppression and explanation by the powers that be, content to hold their island fortress and enjoy their wealth and honours. Yet, perhaps even here, somewhere among these rocky outcroppings, maybe some exceptional individual may still be born, someone who can hear the whisper of The Blood...

Option: "It whispers of conquest."

